client/dashboard/README.md, before:

# Hosting Dashboard

Build a new hosting dashboard for WordPress.com based on the new design. The same dashboard with different entry points is used for different products (WordPress.com, Jetpack Clound and a4a).

## Some principles

- @wordpress/components and design system based, avoid CSS as much as possible.
- Prefer VStack, HStack over Flex components.
- Build as a separate section/url in Calypso /v2 but avoid importing Calypso's components, CSS and state.
- Be very explicit about what dependencies we include.
- Don't use Redux and calypso/state.
- Use lib/wp for REST API calls.
- Use TanStack based stack (Query and Router). Prefer using loaders over adhoc queries.
- If hacks are used, document them in the README and propose a long term solution.
- Use TypeScript, but prefer simple, concrete types.
- Use @wordpress/i18n package for translation.
- Performance testing and e2e testing are key.
- Document all the architecture decisions (design docs)

## Dashboard Design Documentation

This `docs` directory contains comprehensive design documentation for the `/client/dashboard` prototype, a new hosting dashboard for WordPress.com based on modern design principles.

- [Router and Routes](./docs/router.md) - Documentation for the routing system based on @tanstack/react-router
- [Data Library and Layer](./docs/data-library.md) - Documentation for the data fetching and state management approach
- [UI Components](./docs/ui-components.md) - Documentation for the component architecture and design principles
- [Testing Strategy](./docs/testing.md) - Documentation for the testing approach and best practices
- [Entry Points](./docs/entry-points.md) - Documentation for the entry points and how to define new ones (a4a, WordPress.com, etc.)

## Bugs

- The need to pass `{ width: 'auto' }` to some HStack components to make them work like regular divs.
- Importing SASS files bring unexpected CSS variables to our bundles (masterbar, sidebar), it also brings fonts (Recoleta, Noto) and some global classes. Why? Imports should ideally be explicit.

## Hacks

- We want to use the core `Badge` component but there are limitations in its functionality right now. Specifically we want a way to apply the colors (by `intent` prop), but sometimes override the used `icon`. For now we are using `TrendComparisonBadge` with some hacky css to hide the icon.

## E2E testing

### Currently

We're using Calypso's existing infrastructure, which separates the actual tests (`specs`) from so-called "page objects" (and optionally "components"). The latter represent pages (e.g. `DashboardPage`) with specific methods for interaction and inspection:

- test/e2e/specs/dashboard/
- packages/calypso-e2e/src/lib/pages/dashboard-page.ts

The setup itself lacks centralised documentation, IMO, particularly around decrypting the secrets necessary to letting Playwright run Calypso. What we get in return is a system that has already solved many problems (user authentication, etc.).

### Caveat / question

Why must Jest be passed an environment variable so that it tests on localhost and not wordpress.com? Right now we need to call `CALYPSO_BASE_URL=http://calypso.localhost:3000 yarn workspace wp-e2e-tests test -- test/e2e/specs/dashboard/`. Why is that not the default?

### Next

Consider a lighter, less abstracted way of writing tests, without page objects. I don't think the new dashboard justifies the added complexity.

Commit message:

Add New Site: Unify the Add New Site modal between new and v2 dashboard (#103488)

client/dashboard/README.md, after:

# Hosting Dashboard

Build a new hosting dashboard for WordPress.com based on the new design. The same dashboard with different entry points is used for different products (WordPress.com, Jetpack Clound and a4a).

## Some principles

- @wordpress/components and design system based, avoid CSS as much as possible.
- Prefer VStack, HStack over Flex components.
- Build as a separate section/url in Calypso /v2 but avoid importing Calypso's components, CSS and state.
- Be very explicit about what dependencies we include.
- Don't use Redux and calypso/state.
- Use lib/wp for REST API calls.
- Use TanStack based stack (Query and Router). Prefer using loaders over adhoc queries.
- If hacks are used, document them in the README and propose a long term solution.
- Use TypeScript, but prefer simple, concrete types.
- Use @wordpress/i18n package for translation.
- Performance testing and e2e testing are key.
- Document all the architecture decisions (design docs)

## Dashboard Design Documentation

This `docs` directory contains comprehensive design documentation for the `/client/dashboard` prototype, a new hosting dashboard for WordPress.com based on modern design principles.

- [Router and Routes](./docs/router.md) - Documentation for the routing system based on @tanstack/react-router
- [Data Library and Layer](./docs/data-library.md) - Documentation for the data fetching and state management approach
- [UI Components](./docs/ui-components.md) - Documentation for the component architecture and design principles
- [Testing Strategy](./docs/testing.md) - Documentation for the testing approach and best practices
- [Entry Points](./docs/entry-points.md) - Documentation for the entry points and how to define new ones (a4a, WordPress.com, etc.)

## Bugs

- The need to pass `{ width: 'auto' }` to some HStack components to make them work like regular divs.
- Importing SASS files bring unexpected CSS variables to our bundles (masterbar, sidebar), it also brings fonts (Recoleta, Noto) and some global classes. Why? Imports should ideally be explicit.

## Hacks

- We want to use the core `Badge` component but there are limitations in its functionality right now. Specifically we want a way to apply the colors (by `intent` prop), but sometimes override the used `icon`. For now we are using `TrendComparisonBadge` with some hacky css to hide the icon.

## E2E testing

### Currently

We're using Calypso's existing infrastructure, which separates the actual tests (`specs`) from so-called "page objects" (and optionally "components"). The latter represent pages (e.g. `DashboardPage`) with specific methods for interaction and inspection:

- test/e2e/specs/dashboard/
- packages/calypso-e2e/src/lib/pages/dashboard-page.ts

The setup itself lacks centralised documentation, IMO, particularly around decrypting the secrets necessary to letting Playwright run Calypso. What we get in return is a system that has already solved many problems (user authentication, etc.).

### Caveat / question

Why must Jest be passed an environment variable so that it tests on localhost and not wordpress.com? Right now we need to call `CALYPSO_BASE_URL=http://calypso.localhost:3000 yarn workspace wp-e2e-tests test -- test/e2e/specs/dashboard/`. Why is that not the default?

### Sharing components with the hosting dashboard v1

As we iterate on the new dashboard, we may want to share components with the existing hosting dashboard v1. The idea is to ship new screens and redesigns sooner in the existing dashboard, while we work on the new one. This is a temporary solution until we can fully migrate to the new dashboard.

The new hosting dashboard has stricter guidelines (see above) and ESlint rules, for this reason, the shareable components are currently build within the new dashboard. This is not the ideal solution but a pragmatic one.

Shared components: 

 - `/client/dashboard/sites/add-new-site/` - Add new site dropdown/modal content.

### Next

Consider a lighter, less abstracted way of writing tests, without page objects. I don't think the new dashboard justifies the added complexity.
