client/components/empty-content/README.md, before:

# Empty Content

EmptyContent is used when a customer has no data to show. This is an opportunity to provide explanation or guidance to help customer progress. The EmptyContent is intended for use when a full view is empty, and not for individual elements or areas in the interface.

## Usage

### As a full view component

```jsx
// import the component
import EmptyContentComponent from 'calypso/components/empty-content';

// Render the component
function show( context, next ) {
	context.primary = <EmptyContentComponent title="Your title" line="Some text" />;
	next();
}
```

### As an inline component

```jsx
import EmptyContent from 'calypso/components/empty-content';

// Use it inline inside the render method of another component
function render() {
	return (
		<div>
			<EmptyContent title="Your title" line="Some text" />
		</div>
	);
}
```

## Props

| Name                    | Type            | Default                                  | Description                                                                                                                                   |
| ----------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title`\*               | `string`        | `'You haven't created any content yet.'` | The title to be displayed.                                                                                                                    |
| `line`                  | `string`        | `null`                                   | A secondary line, usually leads to the call to action.                                                                                        |
| `illustration`          | `url`           |                                          | The url string of an image path. Displays the [empty results](/calypso/images/illustrations/illustration-empty-results.svg) image by default. |
| `illustrationWidth`     | `number`        | `null`                                   | Will display the image at native width unless a specific width is provided.                                                                   |
| `action`                | `string/object` | `null`                                   | Label or React element used for the primary action button.                                                                                    |
| `actionURL`             | `string`        | `null`                                   | `href` value for the primary action button.                                                                                                   |
| `actionCallback`        | `function`      | `null`                                   | `onClick` value for the primary action button.                                                                                                |
| `actionTarget`          | `string`        | `null`                                   | If omitted, no target attribute is specified.                                                                                                 |
| `actionDisabled`        | `bool`          | `null`                                   | Disables the button.                                                                                                                          |
| `actionRef`             | `function`      | `null`                                   | Adds a ref to the button.                                                                                                                     |
| `isCompact`             | `bool`          | `false`                                  | Shows a smaller version of the component.                                                                                                     |

### Additional props

The component also supports a secondary action. This should be used sparingly.

| Name                      | Type            | Default | Description                                                  |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `secondaryAction`         | `string/object` | `null`  | Label or React element used for the secondary action button. |
| `secondaryActionURL`      | `string`        | `null`  | `href` value for the secondary action button.                |
| `secondaryActionCallback` | `function`      | `null`  | `onClick` value for the secondary action button.             |
| `secondaryActionTarget`   | `string`        | `null`  | If omitted, no target attribute is specified.                |

### Example: Sites

```js
<EmptyContentComponent
	title="You don't have any WordPress sites yet."
	line="Would you like to start one?"
	action="Create Site"
	actionURL={ config( 'signup_url' ) + '?ref=calypso-section' }
/>;
```

## General guidelines

- Use simple and clear language that empowers customers to move forward.
- Be encouraging and never make customers feel unsuccessful or guilty because they haven’t used a product or feature.
- Explain the steps a customer needs to take to activate a product or feature.
- Use only one **primary** call-to-action button.

Commit message:

Clean-up wording in various error messages (#103372)
The EmptyContent component is used to display full screen "empty"
messages - think errors, prompts to add content, 404s etc. They are
often paired with old cartoony illustrations, which isn't the look we're
going for right now.

The EmptyContent component does still retain support for displaying an
image though - sometimes it is genuinely useful, like when displaying
theme screenshots.

This removes cutsey wording like 'uh oh' from error messages using the
<EmptyContent> component. It also switches to use the brand font for
the title.

client/components/empty-content/README.md, after:

# Empty Content

EmptyContent is used when a customer has no data to show. This is an opportunity to provide explanation or guidance to help customer progress. The EmptyContent is intended for use when a full view is empty, and not for individual elements or areas in the interface.

## Usage

### As a full view component

```jsx
// import the component
import EmptyContentComponent from 'calypso/components/empty-content';

// Render the component
function show( context, next ) {
	context.primary = <EmptyContentComponent title="Your title" line="Some text" />;
	next();
}
```

### As an inline component

```jsx
import EmptyContent from 'calypso/components/empty-content';

// Use it inline inside the render method of another component
function render() {
	return (
		<div>
			<EmptyContent title="Your title" line="Some text" />
		</div>
	);
}
```

## Props

| Name                | Type            | Default                                  | Description                                                                 |
| ------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title`\*           | `string`        | `'You haven't created any content yet.'` | The title to be displayed.                                                  |
| `line`              | `string`        | `null`                                   | A secondary line, usually leads to the call to action.                      |
| `illustration`      | `url`           | `null`                                   | The url string of an image path. Null to omit an illustration.              |
| `illustrationWidth` | `number`        | `null`                                   | Will display the image at native width unless a specific width is provided. |
| `action`            | `string/object` | `null`                                   | Label or React element used for the primary action button.                  |
| `actionURL`         | `string`        | `null`                                   | `href` value for the primary action button.                                 |
| `actionCallback`    | `function`      | `null`                                   | `onClick` value for the primary action button.                              |
| `actionTarget`      | `string`        | `null`                                   | If omitted, no target attribute is specified.                               |
| `actionDisabled`    | `bool`          | `null`                                   | Disables the button.                                                        |
| `actionRef`         | `function`      | `null`                                   | Adds a ref to the button.                                                   |
| `isCompact`         | `bool`          | `false`                                  | Shows a smaller version of the component.                                   |

### Additional props

The component also supports a secondary action. This should be used sparingly.

| Name                      | Type            | Default | Description                                                  |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `secondaryAction`         | `string/object` | `null`  | Label or React element used for the secondary action button. |
| `secondaryActionURL`      | `string`        | `null`  | `href` value for the secondary action button.                |
| `secondaryActionCallback` | `function`      | `null`  | `onClick` value for the secondary action button.             |
| `secondaryActionTarget`   | `string`        | `null`  | If omitted, no target attribute is specified.                |

### Example: Sites

```js
<EmptyContentComponent
	title="You don't have any WordPress sites yet."
	line="Would you like to start one?"
	action="Create Site"
	actionURL={ config( 'signup_url' ) + '?ref=calypso-section' }
/>
```

## General guidelines

- Use the correct tone.
- Use simple and clear language that empowers customers to move forward.
- Be encouraging and never make customers feel unsuccessful or guilty because they haven’t used a product or feature.
- Explain the steps a customer needs to take to activate a product or feature.
- Use only one **primary** call-to-action button.
- Ensure that any illustrations are on-brand.
