packages/components/.storybook/overview.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

# Automattic Components Storybook

<Meta title="Overview" />

The Automattic Components Storybook is intended to be a development tool for component developers to test and iterate on the `@automattic/components` package. For full component documentation, see the Automattic Design System website (coming soon).

This Storybook is a work in progress. Keep in mind that there are many components yet to be documented or audited.

## How to use

```sh
yarn components:storybook:start
```	

## Special sections

- **WP Overrides**: Automattic-specific overrides for WordPress Core components.
- **Deprecated**: Components that are deprecated and should not be used anymore.
- **Unaudited**: Components that are not yet audited, and thus not necessarily recommended for further use. After an audit, a component may either be moved to Calypso Components, deprecated, or classified as safe to use. If there is a similar component in [WordPress Core](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg), you should probably use that instead. If you have any questions, feel free to ask in the `#design-systems` channel on A8C Slack or ping Team Calypso.

Commit message:

Storybook: Fix Overview doc (#104049)
* Storybook: Fix Overview doc

* Add "Still internal" section

* Flatten component structure

* Rename "Still internal" to "Unpublished"

packages/components/.storybook/overview.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';

# Automattic Components Storybook

<Meta title="Overview" />

The Automattic Components Storybook is intended to be a development tool for component developers to test and iterate on the `@automattic/components` package. For full component documentation, see the Automattic Design System website (coming soon).

This Storybook is a work in progress. Keep in mind that there are many components yet to be documented or audited.

## How to use

```sh
yarn components:storybook:start
```	

## Special sections

- **WP Overrides**: Automattic-specific overrides for WordPress Core components.
- **Unpublished**: Components that are still internal to the package and not exported.
- **Deprecated**: Components that are deprecated and should not be used anymore.
- **Unaudited**: Components that are not yet audited, and thus not necessarily recommended for further use. After an audit, a component may either be moved to Calypso Components, deprecated, or classified as safe to use. If there is a similar component in [WordPress Core](https://wordpress.github.io/gutenberg), you should probably use that instead. If you have any questions, feel free to ask in the `#design-systems` channel on A8C Slack or ping Team Calypso.
